chore: Add vector-aggregator highlight (#8800)
timberio/vector: website/content/en/highlights/2021-08-24-vector-aggregator.md

---
date: "2021-08-24"
title: "Moving the aggregator chart to public beta"
description: "The Vector aggregator Helm chart is now publicly available"
authors: ["spencergilbert"]
pr_numbers: [8801]
release: "0.16.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: "announcement"
  platforms: ["helm"]
---

We are happy to announce that our [`vector-aggregator`][chart] chart is now publicly available.
While we continue to iterate on and make improvements to the chart, we feel it is ready to get
wider feedback from the community at large.

We have also created a dedicated Discord channel, [#aggregator][discord], for support, questions,
and feedback.

## What is an aggregator

When Vector is run in an [aggregator role][aggregator], it is used to transform and ship data

> collected by other agents.

Author: This needs additional fleshing out

---
date: "2021-08-24"
title: "Moving the aggregator chart to public beta"
description: "The Vector aggregator Helm chart is now publicly available"
authors: ["spencergilbert"]
pr_numbers: [8801]
release: "0.16.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: "announcement"
  platforms: ["helm"]
---

We are happy to announce that our [`vector-aggregator`][chart] chart is now publicly available.
While we continue to iterate on and make improvements to the chart, we feel it is ready to get
wider feedback from the community at large.

We have also created a dedicated Discord channel, [#aggregator][discord], for support, questions,
and feedback.

## What is an aggregator

> When Vector is run in an [aggregator role][aggregator], it is used to transform and ship data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Vector is deployed as an [aggregator][aggregator], it is used to transform and ship data
```

Author: I'll wait for @binarylogic's feedback and batch this with it (if needed)

---
date: "2021-08-24"

> title: "Moving the aggregator chart to public beta"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "Moving the aggregator Helm chart to public beta"
```

---
date: "2021-08-24"
title: "Moving the Aggregator chart to public beta"
description: "The Vector Aggregator Helm chart is now publicly available"
authors: ["spencergilbert"]
pr_numbers: [TODO]
release: "0.16.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: "announcement"
  platforms: ["helm"]
---

> We are happy to announce our *vector-aggregator* chart is now publicly available. While

Reviewer 3: * s/announce/announce that
* Use backticks for vector-aggregator as it's a "code term"

> We are happy to announce that our `vector-aggregator` chart is now publicly available. While

Reviewer: Would linking to the chart be useful?

Author: Get out of here with your common sense.

we continue to iterate on and make improvements to the chart, we feel it is ready to get
wider feedback from the community at large.

> We have also created a dedicated Discord channel, [#aggregator][discord], for support and questions.

Reviewer: Maybe we could add a bit about what an aggregator is for people that aren't familiar? We can link to https://vector.dev/docs/setup/deployment/roles/#aggregator . I realize this is just announcing the chart's availability, but I can imagine a lot of users coming into this highlight having no idea what an "aggregator" is.

Should we also add or link to a description of what the chart does?

> We have also created a dedicated Discord channel, [#aggregator][discord], for support and questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have also created a dedicated Discord channel, [#aggregator][discord], for support, questions, and feedback.
```

> ## Setup

Reviewer: I could see linking to the quick start or installation guide you are working on in https://github.com/timberio/vector/pull/8489

Author: 👍 I'm alright with replacing it here, it _will_ be duplicative once the installation instructions are there.

```shell
helm repo add vector https://helm.vector.dev
helm repo update
```

The chart will also be available from https://packages.timber.io/helm/latest

> for backward compatibility.

Reviewer: We could link to the other highlight here.

## Installation

```shell
helm install vector vector/vector-aggregator \
  --namespace vector \
  --create-namespace
```

An installation with default values today will start a *vector-aggregator* listening on
port `9000` with a [`vector` source][sources.vector] configured with [v2][highlight.v2].

You can review the default values at [timberio/helm-charts][default] or by running the following:

```shell
helm show values vector/vector-aggregator
```

## Looking Forward

> Our next steps involve improving the out of the box experience and reducing the configuration

Reviewer 3: out-of-the-box

> required to aggregate events from a number of common sources. We also are looking to provide

Reviewer 3: s/also are/are also

> a better experience integrating load balancing across multiple Aggregators with additional work

Reviewer 3: Hmmm. I don't think we've settled on capitalizing "aggregator."

Author: 🤔 in the last meeting between @apigirl @binarylogic and @jszwedko we thought Vector Agent and Vector Aggregator were good - but happy to update as we want.

Reviewer: Yeah, we are thinking about branding that way. I'd say just leave it lowercase for now to match the rest of the site and then we can update all at once if we do decide to start capitalizing.

Author: In that case - how do we want to handle the capitalization in the title and description?

Reviewer: It looks like we've generally been using normal case (rather than Title Case) for highlights so I think lower case there too.

> on the bundled HAProxy.

Reviewer 3: I think HAProxy should have another noun with it, i.e. "HAProxy installation," "HAProxy setup," etc.
